Opt in to RH insights (#3288)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_enabling-rh-cloud-and-insights-client-reports-on-hosts.adoc

Reviewer: Does it make sense for other OSs than RHEL? Could we mention that?

[id="enabling-rh-cloud-and-insights-client-reports-on-hosts_{context}"]
= Enabling rh-cloud and insights-client reports on hosts

You can set the `host_registration_insights` parameter to *True* to enable _rh-cloud_ and _insights-client_ reports.
{Project} will create _rh-cloud_ reports and _insights-client_ will upload reports to the cloud.

Use the following procedure to change the value of `host_registration_insights` parameter.

.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Host* > *Provisioning Setup* > *Operating Systems*.
. Select any {RHEL} operating systems for which you want to change the value.
. On the *Parameters* tab, click on the edit button of `host_registration_insights`.
. Set the value to *True*.

> You can also set this parameter at the organization, host group, subnet, and domain level.

Reviewer 2: Or, like Satellite, as a global parameter

> You can also set this parameter at the organization, host group, subnet, and domain level.

Reviewer 3: or individual host

> However, if you set the parameter non any non-{RHEL} operating systems, it automatically uploads new reports.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add a note about the implications (which I don't know).

Reviewer 3: Fix: However, if you set the parameter on any non-{RHEL} operating system, it automatically uploads new reports.

[id="enabling-rh-cloud-and-insights-client-reports-on-hosts_{context}"]

> = Enabling rh-cloud and insights-client reports on hosts
> 
> You can set the `host_registration_insights` parameter to *True* to enable _rh-cloud_ and _insights-client_ reports.
> {Project} will create _rh-cloud_ reports and _insights-client_ will upload reports to the cloud.
> 
> Use the following procedure to change the value of `host_registration_insights` parameter.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Enabling RH Cloud and Insights client reports on hosts

You can enable the Red Hat Insights client on hosts and have the hosts send RH Cloud reports to the {RHCloud}.

```
I would prefer to clean the introduction a bit. You don't have to duplicate the procedure in the intro.

It would also be good to mention what benefits it brings.

.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Host* > *Provisioning Setup* > *Operating Systems*.
. Select any {RHEL} operating systems for which you want to change the value.
. On the *Parameters* tab, click on the edit button of `host_registration_insights`.
. Set the value to *True*.

.Additional resources
* You can set this parameter at any level.

> For more information, see {ProvisioningDocURL}Host_Parameter_Hierarchy_provisioning[Host parameter hierarchy] in _{ProvisioningDocTitle}_.

Reviewer: I have been considering adding that module to _Managing hosts_, perhaps as an Appendix, and linking to it locally. I'd like to rewrite the section about registration parameters at some point and link to the appendix from there as well. So it would be worth considering.

+

> However, if you set the parameter on any non-{RHEL} operating systems, it automatically uploads new reports.

Reviewer 4: I'd say that adding this line means that lines 16-19 can no longer be considered additional resources. An additional resource is just a link. However, line 19 adds an explanation of product behavior that would be better suited for the `.Procedure` part.

[id="enabling-rh-cloud-and-insights-client-reports-on-hosts_{context}"]
= Enabling RH Cloud and Insights client reports on hosts

> You can enable the Red Hat Insights client on hosts and have the hosts send RH Cloud reports to the {RHCloud}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enable the Red Hat Insights client on hosts and have {Project} upload hosts inventory to the Insights service in the {RHCloud}.
```
I quickly checked in the web UI what exactly is the data that gets sent to RH Cloud. This should be a more precise expression.

Author: Thanks, applied.

ifdef::katello,foreman-el,foreman-deb[]
Red Hat Insights is a service by Red Hat for {RHEL} hosts.
Ensure to set this parameter for {RHEL} hosts only.

> If you set the parameter on any non-{RHEL} operating systems, it automatically uploads new reports to the {RHCloud}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you set the parameter on any non-{RHEL} operating systems, {Project} automatically uploads new reports to the {RHCloud}.
```
This line seems confusing to me.

Does it mean that Foreman will be able to install Insights client on Debian/Ubuntu for example? If not, are the reports even generated? Is the host still included in the inventory upload? If not, then what is there to upload?
cc @chris1984 @jeremylenz Can you please help answer these questions? ^^

Also, it depends on the Inventory Upload setting whether Foreman uploads the inventory data automatically or not. It isn't hard coded.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1e623de7-5781-478b-9e2a-ea7f25a23bb9)

Reviewer 5: The Insights client will not be installed on Debian / Ubuntu since the corresponding snippet has a verification if the host is running RHEL.

For the inventory upload, however, Foreman RH-Cloud searches for hosts with the parameter `host_registration_insights != false` independent of the fact when the parameter was actually set or if the insights client is indeed installed.

The facts it uploads to RH Hybrid Cloud Console like the (potentially obfuscated) IP address, hostname seem to be taken from the Foreman database since in our tests they appear in the inventory in RH HCC even for Debian or Ubuntu hosts.

The query loading the host information is in `lib/foreman_inventory_upload/generators/queries.rb` inside the rh-cloud plugin if somebody wants to have a closer look.

As far as I understand `{Project}` uploads an insights report if one is available and a base set of facts whereof IP and hostname can be obfuscated and packages can be excluded. The latter is not relevant for Debian or Ubuntu since they have `deb_packages` instead of `packages`.

I hope that helps in finding a wording for that line and answering your questions.

Author: Applied Lena's suggestion.

> If you set the parameter on any non-{RHEL} operating systems, {Project} automatically uploads new reports to the {RHCloud}.

Author: Applied.

endif::[]

.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Host* > *Provisioning Setup* > *Operating Systems*.
. Select any {RHEL} operating systems for which you want to change the value.

> . On the *Parameters* tab, click on the edit button of `host_registration_insights`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *Parameters* tab, click on the edit button of the `host_registration_insights` parameter.
```

Reviewer: Btw, there's no an edit button for parameters:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/28ffa766-009d-450f-9069-1b337340dfb5)

If users are enabling it for the OS, they will probably have to add the parameter, not edit it.

Author: Yes, verified and updated. I have reworded this step and added the missing "click Submit" step too.
